a little over two years ago I made a
video about the diverging diamond
interchange in its place in the study
and practice of transportation
specifically how this oddly structured
intersection allows for a smoother and
safer flow of traffic in major cities
around America and every day for the
past two years since posting I wake up
each morning and see the exact same
comment over and over and over and over
again just feels like an expensive ly
complicated way to not use a roundabout
too bad America is too stupid to
implement roundabouts they're way more
efficient than stoplights a real fix is
roundabouts everywhere just put a
roundabout on each side word roundabout
today we are going to address the
roundabout issue once and for all so
that the comments will stop first let me
state for the record I know roundabouts
are safer than traditional intersections
the Federal Highway Administration and
Insurance Institute for Highway Safety
or as they are known on the streets flaw
and is both ran studies that showed
roundabouts reduced overall collisions
by 37% at intersections where stop signs
where signals were previously used for
traffic control pedestrian collisions
dropped 40% injury crashes dropped 75%
and fatality collisions dropped 90%
those numbers are great in no way shape
or form should they be downplayed
roundabouts are safer there's no light
for lead foot drivers to try and gun it
to beat instead all cars must slow down
and yield to traffic so if an accident
occurs it's usually a minor collision at
low speed plus cars are all moving in
one direction so there's no chance
you'll get t-boned or hit another car
head-on the design offers way fewer
chances for deadly collisions cities
that reject the roundabout are not doing
so out of ignorance over the designs
effectiveness no the real issue here
stems from money because while it would
be nice to say that no cost is too high
for governments to protect human life
the truth is when
comes to the real world there is always
a price tag to keeping people safe and
in many American cities on many American
roads the cost of ushering in the
roundabout is simply too much so public
roadways in America are generally built
and maintained by state government
organizations in my home state this is
mo dot the Missouri Department of
Transportation they have seven regional
districts to take care of local roads
and services and if you're an American
your state likely has something similar
mo dots operating budget comes primarily
from taxes namely fuel taxes
registration and licensing fees and
motor vehicle sales taxes this year
their budget is about 2.3 billion
dollars they've got to figure out a way
to spread that money throughout the
entire state making decisions about
highway location design construction and
continued maintenance but it's not just
the roadways they also have to figure
out airports rail facilities waterways
public transit and bicycle and
pedestrian traffic as well this requires
more than six thousand employees who are
responsible for maintaining the seventh
largest highway system in the nation
that's more than 32,000 miles now for
perspective it costs about a hundred and
twenty-one thousand dollars to resurface
a single lane of a single mile of a
major highway
so while 2.3 billion dollars seems like
an exorbitant amount of money with over
32,000 miles to take care of starts to
add up
they are just filling potholes they have
to take care of plowing and treating
roads when snow falls picking up litter
mowing building and maintaining bridges
the point I'm making is there's a lot of
stuff to cover and they have to make
hard choices about where and how to
spend money so that they don't go over
budget because if they do oh boy the
ramifications Moe God's mission
statement is built on three key pillars
safety service and stability safety
meaning protecting travelers from
potential injury service meaning and the
efficient and satisfactory
transportation system and stability
meaning a solid reliable network that
promotes a prosperous economy
spending taxpayer money in a way that
strikes a balance between these three
pillars is no easy task when I see a
comment like this which reckons that
converting every intersection in America
to a roundabout should be quote
relatively cheap and quote only take a
couple of months I know that that person
is either trolling or severely
misinformed about the scope of
challenges that come from traffic flow
because redesigning every intersection
in a real life city isn't like a video
game where you can simply drag and drop
a new option altering even a single
Junction is an intensely calculated
affair each with its own unique
challenges like typography some cities
have unique Geographic considerations
odd elevation or weather concerns that
would make a lighted intersection more
advisable as well vehicle density might
make a roundabout less effective if a
nearby business like a farm or a
shipping warehouse means tractor
trailers and big rigs will be frequently
traveling through creating highly
unbalanced traffic flows IIHS believes
roundabouts might not be the best choice
roundabouts to require more real estate
than a traditional intersection if this
physical space is unavailable due to
land use like commercial ownership
conservation or other factors then a
roundabout cannot be built if creating
the space requires altering the
geographic landscape then things like
demolition elevation and resurfacing
make the cost of installation even
higher remember converting a traditional
interchange isn't just a matter of
widening a couple lanes and putting up
some new signs moving to a roundabout
means removing the entire existing
structure and rebuilding everything from
the ground up this costs money but it
also takes time and this presents
another challenge traffic control
because if you closed down a major
intersection to improve it you need to
provide drivers with a temporary detour
and if you don't set up or choose one
carefully you'll break your entire towns
traffic system set up a detour that's
too cumbersome or annoying people will
try to find a different route to work if
cars begin commuting in other areas that
were not meant to
support a high volume then one road
closure can create a cascading effect on
other traffic spots around town and it
could result in gridlock for this reason
there is an entire science of studying
traffic flow using computer simulations
to determine the best way to handle
trouble spots and the trouble is every
city is different population size and
type varies wildly depending on the time
of day traffic volume fluctuates it is
not a simple cut-and-dried formula on
top of that there are industrial
considerations if a town decides to
convert a major intersection the
resulting road construction will create
economic impacts New York State has done
extensive research and documentation on
the negative effects road closures have
on nearby commercial properties have a
detour up for too long and nearby
businesses particularly restaurants and
gas stations will take a severe hit the
reason why is obvious if there's
annoying construction in an area people
will avoid driving there and as a result
less people will shop there and even for
a fast food chain losing more than half
of your typical customer base for six
months to a year can mean the difference
between staying open or closing
permanently improving a city's
infrastructure doesn't just cost
taxpayer money if mismanaged it can
result in major financial shortfalls
from lost revenue and finally though it
won't win much sympathy from a lot of
you there is the human factor because no
matter how safe a design may be on paper
if it isn't understood or accepted by
the people who are meant to use it
there's no point and whether it makes
sense or not the truth is most drivers
in America are used to and prefer the
traditional stop-go intersection yes it
has its deficiencies yes roundabouts are
safer yes they allow better traffic flow
yes most drivers can eventually adapt
but in such a delicate and important
system transportation this transition if
it is to happen
should be done slowly and carefully not
all at once
so having said all of that let's answer
the question of the day why the
diverging diamond when you put our three
factors together safety service and
stability the diverging diamond
interchange strikes a good healthy
balance
it offers a safer design than
traditional intersections not as much as
a roundabout but still a significant
improvement and this is key existing
intersections can be converted to this
design in a fraction of the time and
fraction of the price when compared to
the total redesign needed for a
roundabout make sense look more often
than not your local Department of
Transportation job is to mitigate the
downsides that come with every option
available road construction is annoying
and slow sometimes filled with what
seems like pointless bureaucracy but
when you see traffic cones and workers
operating intrusively loud machinery
around town remember it's a sign that
your city is working to improve
conditions and to keep you safe
when you're on the road if you want to
learn more visit your local Department
of Transportation and ask for a tour
attend a public meeting or hearing when
they hold them ask the engineer's
questions about how the traffic system
operates you'll learn a lot oh and
before you go see these these are stop
signs they are not suggestions when you
see them bring your vehicle to a
complete stop before proceeding I've
noticed there seems to be some confusion
this video is sponsored by Skillshare an
online learning community that offers
practical classes presented in a way
that helps you move your creative
journey forward without forcing you to
put your day-to-day life on hold with a
huge collection of classes on writing
creativity productivity and more there's
something for almost anybody if like me
you fluctuate between being fairly put
together and having more than the
occasional moment of crushing feelings
of inadequacy and utter hopelessness due
to you're seeming inability to perform
minut tasks at regular intervals you
might be interested in this class on
building habits that lasts from YouTuber
thomas frank over the course of ten
lessons he'll help you learn how to set
reason of
and realistic goals what to do to reach
them how to handle failure without
giving up habit tracking and habit
formation all you need to hit the ground
running an annual subscription to skill
share is less than ten dollars a month
but the first 1,000 people who click the
link in the description will get two
free months of Skillshare premium you
can enjoy unlimited access to thousands
of classes with hands-on projects and
feedback from a community of millions
check it out today